- That's obviously an embarrassing group of people
to be a part of.
- Yeah, I mean, like, it's like the first time
in human history, right?
That we've been like, let's pause on technology.
Slow down, you're going too fast.
(upbeat music)
- What exactly has happened is the last time
we've talked about it 'cause it feels like forever go.
And it was only like a maybe a month ago.
- Yes, we were just talking about
what we talked about in the last AI podcast.
And it was mostly like the generative stuff,
the AI image generation stuff.
Now I feel like Chad GBT is the giant elephant in the room.
Open AI, I mean, Chad GBT's been around for a while,
but like they just started shipping stuff
that seems to like fill a lot of the gaps in.
So they announced the plugin API
and this internet connectivity where you can like write
plugins that can then go out and fetch real time data,
not just, you know, stuff prior to the knowledge cut off.
There's that date where the model was trained 2021
or something.
And before this, you sort of like all answers are
in the past before that date.
Now the plugins allow you to fetch up-to-date information.
So hopefully filling in the time gap
and then also like it's allegedly eliminating
a lot of the hallucinations because now they can go out
and fetch real data.
I guess you have to install the plugins.
I'm not really sure how it's all going to work,
but they showed like examples of it running like
FFmpeg commands in open or in chat GBT.
Like it's running Python code natively in chat GBT
to solve things that you ask it, which is just wild.
- Yeah, that stuff is really cool.
I think people, and I think that's why it feels like it's fast
because when open AI came out, people were like,
oh, you obviously need this capability in other places.
So people started to build all these little mini tools.
Then chat GBT was like, no, hold up.
You don't need to do that.
It's just going to be in our platform.
You're never going to have to leave.
The whole model is actually reversed,
which again, it's a great example of why I feel like
there's a lot of chasing that happens
whenever there's something new and revolutionary.
And it's obviously a lot of opportunity with everything.
But if you're just going to hop on something,
'cause there's some excitement around it
and you just do the first idea you think of,
things are moving quickly and you probably,
your idea might not even be relevant.
And it's kind of what's happened.
I think with a lot of those simple startups
or two weeks ago or no, it's not super relevant anymore.
- Yeah, I had this thought,
even before they announced all that stuff,
that I would not want to build something
on top of chat GBT.
I see a lot of cool examples people post on Twitter.
I would not want to build a thing
that's just relying on chat GBT.
So much as I would like to say,
okay, this is a new era.
We can build products way faster than we ever could.
What I want to build, it's not related AI,
but AI is just going to help me build it way faster.
I think that's the more exciting thing to me
as a technologist.
I mean, it's not helping me make rebase any faster, I guess.
Sorry, Dax.
But allegedly, theoretically, we could build it way faster.
- I think we are building it faster.
'Cause I, and both of us, I've seen you on stream
and you've probably seen me.
I open up chat GBT for everything, whenever I need,
whenever I know what I need done, and I just need to do it,
and I don't remember the exact details on how to do it,
it is flawless, and it's such a habit now.
It's what integrated into my workflow.
And I think that's actually where the shift was for me.
That's how I've been feeling about this for a while,
which is wow, it's making me so much more productive.
And that was like only positive, right?
It only made me feel like I was already pretty good
at what I do.
Now I feel like I'm like 100 times better at what I do.
I think it also is weirdly creating,
like if the gaps between people,
like if one person was like, you know,
twice as experienced as someone else,
I feel like chat GBT just amplifies that,
and now they're like 100 times better,
'cause you know, there's better--
- So the 10x engineers, the mythical 10x
becomes like 100 or 1000x.
- Yeah, exactly, 'cause they just amplify their judgment,
and like people that are good at what they do,
it's just they have good judgment and good instincts.
And when they see the joke how it spits out,
they immediately know what to refine,
like what's right, what's wrong.
So they're just faster at like the whole iteration loop.
So with that in mind, tell me Dax,
how does this not eliminate jobs?
I feel like everyone comes out and wants to defend
and be like, you're an idiot
if you think this is gonna take jobs.
How does it not take jobs?
- It's so layered, like I feel a lot of people
that are saying it's gonna take jobs
are kind of saying in a dumb way,
and I don't agree with them.
But then I also find people that are saying,
it's not gonna take jobs, also kind of misguided.
Like the people that are saying it's gonna take jobs,
I think there's kind of in panic mode,
I'm not really thinking about it too deeply
and they're scared, which makes sense
'cause this is all like very disruptive
and I myself have had some of those feelings.
And then I think that people that are saying,
it's not gonna take jobs, this is just another hype thing.
I also feel like they're panicking,
but they're like really good at being denial.
So I feel like the general takes I've been seeing
have just been just kind of annoying to be honest.
I don't know where I said this,
but I was like, there's people literally saying,
I saw this is like a real tweet,
I saw they were like, intelligence is no longer valuable.
- What?
- Like we live in a post-intelligence world.
This is no longer a thing that is gonna help.
The only thing that matters is having an audience.
And I'm just like, okay, that guy,
he does have an audience and I'm like,
I see why he wants to live in a world
where intelligence doesn't matter.
(laughing)
- I don't think he had intelligence to start with.
He's just as excited as he doesn't need it.
(laughing)
- I know.
So there's that and there's other people
that are completely in denial that are like,
this is just a dumb machine
that is like emulating intelligence and is useless.
So I feel like both sides of those takes are kind of,
I don't know, I'm not like super interested in that.
I would say these are negative feelings.
I think I've processed them and now I feel excited again.
But there was a moment when I realized,
'cause me and Liz, you know, work on a product together,
like a very traditional SAS application.
- Boomy. - Yeah, boomy.
And we think it's very good.
And we spend a lot of time really understanding
our users and building something like way better
than everything else in the space
to solve a similar problem.
And we were able to do that 'cause we have just years
of building SAS application.
Like we just picked a space and just put our skillset in there
and we knew we would guarantee good results, right?
'Cause we've done it before.
But then when I was looking at this stuff
and I'm like, wow, the way I build products
and all those skill sets I rely on
to be better than other people,
to like deliver products that are really good,
it's a complete reset.
'Cause now you can solve the same problems
in a completely different way.
And it's a whole new world of like learning UX things, right?
There's all these little UX things that I know
that work really well on a traditional product.
But now there's like, okay, how do you integrate this stuff
into a product?
How do you deal with non-deterministic output, right?
Like now you have stuff where you can ask chat
if you do something integrate that into your product,
but you don't know exactly if it's gonna be correct
when it comes back, like how do you build these interactions,
interfaces, and I realized like, this thing,
I was going to have to be better than other people.
I am now, I can still rely on it somewhat,
but we're kind of all beginners in this world
of building products with chat, GPT,
and we're all kind of at the same level.
And it's like the race resets and now we're starting again
to compete with each other.
- Yeah, I think like, it's hitting me most at home
with Stammus, like I feel like, so Stammus, sorry,
it's like a sports statistics search engine with Stammus.com,
check it out.
So Stammus, we're like basically dependent on Google.
We get tons of traffic from Google
and I just don't know like where it's all,
people talk about like chat GPT being the end of Google.
I just don't know if there's any sliver of truth there.
If like, will Google's numbers start dipping
because people go to chat GPT instead of searching
on traditional search indexes, that's like,
that's a big deal for us.
Stammus, like we depend heavily on getting lots
of traditional SEO stuff.
And if people start searching for sports questions
in chat GPT or elsewhere, how does that affect the landscape?
I don't know if you have thoughts on any of that.
Like, is that stuff gonna change?
Are people actually using Google less?
I guess I do.
- So, yeah, I mean, I think I definitely use Google less.
I think the Stammus case, I think that's actually
a great demonstration of what will continue to exist
and what is different.
So, Stammus, you guys have two parts, right?
You have the work of collecting and organizing information
that is accurate, true, and correct.
And that's a lot of work and that's where like a lot
of the value is and you guys have put in a ton of work
into organizing that.
Then there's the interface to accessing that data.
I think a lot of products fit like how this dichotomy,
like even with Boomi, we help our businesses
like just collect accurate information
about their customers and make sure
everything's organized and structured correctly.
- That stuff I feel is never gonna go away
'cause chat JPT gets trained on correct information.
So, part of your business is like creating that
and creating the source of that information.
I feel like that's still gonna be the same and be valuable
and chat JPT might help you in like building the tools
for that, of course, but it's not gonna replace that.
People, the interface for Stammus might end up being
chat JPT, right?
I don't think you guys have a problem there
'cause they would just find Stammus through chat JPT
if that's where their entry point is.
- I mean, so I'm very interested in the plug-ins thing
when that came out for that reason
because I don't know like, could we have a Stammus plug-in
and I've applied like to do it,
but I don't know like if we do have a Stammus plug-in,
will we get like attributes?
Are people still gonna end up on Stammus.com
or is it just gonna feed, chat, chat, JPT, all this stuff
and then we're just, we're no longer relevant, I don't know.
- Yeah, and that's why we're kind of a,
it's kind of a reset, right?
It's like business models need to change.
How do you monetize this stuff?
Is it gonna have to end up being like a licensing thing?
- You also have to pay to use chat JPT currently.
So it's not like, like Google
where literally anyone can just use it.
Like does that model even make sense long term?
Like you do want people just accessing it
without having to pay for it upfront, right?
- Right.
- Yeah, so I have no idea, like business models
have to completely be rediscovered again.
Jay from SSD, he made a funny parallel.
He's like, when the iPhone first came out,
it was all fart apps.
Like despite the power of the iPhone, iPhone apps,
it was really hard for people to think about anything
more grand than fart apps.
And he's like, right now we basically have a bunch of fart apps
on chat JPT effectively, like not literally,
but like in terms of like level sophistication.
- Yeah.
- But now there's like, you know, iPhone apps,
there are billion dollar companies
with like million line code bases that build iPhone apps.
And we could have, none of us could even conceive of it.
We had kind of the scaffolder way up there with like,
over time we all sort of understand stuff that we can do,
patterns we can do.
I talk about the Pulte refresh thing a lot.
Like Pulte refresh wasn't a thing for a very long time
on apps and so I'm not to invent that now.
It's everywhere.
So yeah, I think we're gonna have to go through the same thing
with all this.
Like we don't know what to do with this stuff yet.
- That just reminds me that you,
we've talked about Simon Wardley before,
big like serverless prognosticator.
Is that the word for something who makes like predictions?
- I've never heard the word prognosticator before.
- Is that how I make that up?
I might have made that word up prognosticator.
- Does medical?
- I don't know, maybe.
- He's a person who like thinks a lot like prognosis.
- I see like you give like a maker of prognosis-ies?
Prognoso, prognoci?
Okay.
- We'll fact check this later.
We're gonna ask tragic ideas.
- Yeah, yeah.
So he makes like a lot of predictions about the world.
He maps, he does mapping, which is like a thing.
I don't know much about it, but I just realized he talks
about like the thing after serverless
is conversational programming or something.
And I never knew what that was.
And it just occurred to me, this is that, isn't it?
- He's right, isn't he?
- He like, he laid that out at a time.
- Oh, five years ago, he had diagrams
that were like mapping out how the next thing
after serverless is conversational programming.
And when he says that, I just thought he meant like,
speaking English to program stuff, what is that?
But this is it.
This is like, we're trying to figure out
how to program on Chad JBT now.
And like what experiences can you build?
Maybe?
I don't know.
Did I just, did I miss it?
- No, I mean, that sounds exactly like what we're doing.
Yeah, wow, that's impressive.
Did he post something the other day where it was like a chart
of like, people were like,
oh, when does singularity gonna happen?
And it was a good chart of human intelligence going up.
Oh yeah, I found that 'cause he retweeted it.
And then it was like human intelligence
going down to meet AI at the intersection.
And someone was like, what evidence do you have of this?
And they were like, and Simon Warley was like,
the fact that Jersey Shore is in this good season.
- Do you really watch that show?
What is it?
You gotta tell me what that is.
You said you--
- You don't know what it is.
- No.
- Did you reply to me and say you watch it?
Is that true?
- Yeah, I watch every episode of Jersey Shore.
I've seen every episode of Jersey Shore.
And I love it.
- Is it just like Ken Wheeler?
Is that basically what the show is?
It's just like a bunch of Ken Wheeler's.
That's what I imagine.
- Here's a story with it.
So I'm from New Jersey.
And there was a really big reality show called Jersey Shore
that was documented a very specific stereotype
that does exist in parts of New Jersey.
It's not like probably New Jersey.
It's like the Italian, like Guido, like,
specific lifestyle thing.
And these people were just like insane drunk,
like just not people you would look up to at all.
And they did like two or three seasons of the show.
Then 10 or 15 years later, they rebooted it.
And now they're in a different part of their life.
- Okay.
- And they're all so mature, like smart.
And they've all like grown so much.
And like they've followed their lives now.
And like, you know, they've had all these bad experiences
'cause if they got famous and like rich
and they did all this stuff
and but now they're in a better place.
Every single one of them, all of them in therapy,
like doing great, is it still entertaining?
- I find it very entertaining.
Again, it's close to me 'cause like I saw it
when I was younger and I was in New Jersey
and they all live in New Jersey, so.
- Okay.
- Anyway, but anyway, that's proof
that human intelligence is declining,
which I'm not even gonna, I don't even disagree.
- Yeah, well, is there any truth that?
So kind of going back to the AI thing,
you said this person that tweeted
that like the intelligence isn't worth anything anymore.
Is there actual data on like,
I think there is like test scores and stuff going down
for like the last 50 years or whatever in the US,
mass scores have never been worse.
I just saw this in the last couple of days.
- Yeah, I mean, I think, I think my whole life
I've been seeing that information about that going down.
I don't know, I don't know.
I think there's like different components of this,
like is biological intelligence,
like your capability for intelligence going down.
You know, technically I think there is proof
that our like ancient, ancient ancestors
were a lot more individually smart than us
because they had to be.
They had to like know all this stuff to survive.
Like, well, plants are safe.
Like what can, like where do I need to migrate?
Like what are the weather patterns?
As an individual, you have to be so much smarter.
Now we're collectively so much smarter
that we individually don't have to be as smart.
So I can see an argument for individual intelligence
going down mostly because we have so much structure
in place that it compensates for that.
And I guess that's kind of what his chart shows.
Like as AI gets better, we individually don't have to be as smart.
- Yeah, that makes sense.
It reminds me of the,
have you ever read Rational Optimists?
I think it's that book.
- Yeah, I love that book.
- Yeah, okay.
So in that book, is that the book where he talks about
like he's setting at his desk, eating breakfast
and it's like the plate was manufactured in Sweden.
The bagel is made from ingredients
from like seven different countries.
Like just all the different,
how our whole world is our whole framework
that we live in is made up of like collectively thousands
or hundreds of thousands of people.
It's just wild when you think about it actually.
- Yeah.
- So collectively we accomplish a whole lot.
Like way, way, way, way more than what the smartest person
who's ever lived can do on their own.
Like like a hundred dumb people can do better than.
- But like individually, we just watch Jersey Shore.
That's how smart we are.
- Yeah, exactly.
And that's kind of what chat GPT is.
It is kind of dumb in some ways
'cause it doesn't like know a lot of obvious things.
But it also has an infinite memory.
It's basically like a billion dumb people.
- Interesting.
- It's kind of what you're tapping into.
So does it have infinite memory?
When you say infinite memory,
like you just mean it's trained on so much more data
than any one person could actually store in their head?
- Yeah, yeah, just relative to a human, it's effectively.
It's like if we could just remember literally everything.
- Yeah.
Yeah, no, that's a good point.
I've heard a lot of people say like,
it's like having an intern or like a thousand interns.
But it's like one person who has like bits
of a thousand people in their head
are more than a thousand, I guess.
Yeah, interesting.
It's all hard to think about.
It just kind of hurts my head.
I'm not very smart.
We're not individually very smart anymore.
It's very hard for me to wrap my head around it.
- So how do you feel now?
Do you feel excited, worried, nervous?
- I mean, I don't know that I feel anything.
I mean, this is just a meat problem.
I don't really have emotions.
But I think there was a day
where it was when they announced the plugins.
I got a little anxious.
Not like I thought I was gonna lose my job,
but more just like I don't know what the future looks like
and that just freaks me out a little bit.
I had also had coffee for the first time in months
and I was like coffee anxiety.
But I think now I'm just kind of settled back down
to a normal plane of existence.
I think like I'm somewhat excited.
I don't know that I have an emotional,
like I don't feel excited day to day,
but I think I am excited to see where it's all headed.
It does feel like this is different
than any of the big fads or like people want to compare it
to like NFTs and Web3 and that stuff just drives me crazy.
This is not like that.
This is like actually useful right now for lots of people.
But I do wonder like I guess I go to the pessimistic side
on some things like societally.
I just can't imagine if like some people
are a thousand times more productive than they were before
that employers will still continue
to hire the same number of people.
Like it just seems like fundamentally we have bigger levers.
So we need fewer people pulling those levers.
I don't know.
Maybe that's, you always say like there's infinite opportunity
or infinite desire.
What do you say?
Make me feel better.
- They're just infinite things we have to do.
I think yeah, in the short term,
there's just gonna be some reshuffling.
Which is kind of already happening.
Just ignore the AI thing.
Just looking at just like those shrinking
in some of these bigger companies.
So it takes time for that stuff to reshuffle.
But I don't know.
Like it's possible that this time it's different.
Just but historically like when we've gone through phases
like this, yes, there was a little bit of chaos
but then like stuff emerged from there
that ended up being way crazier than we can imagine.
Again, I want to believe that that's true.
So I do believe it.
But I also think it makes sense
and there's a history in it.
I also feel a little,
they're coming back to like how we feel.
I feel a little humbled in some ways
because so my dad is a software engineer.
So he's been in tech through like other big moments.
And looking back, I was kind of like,
oh man, like you were so close to all this.
Like how didn't, how didn't,
why didn't you have the idea for like Uber
or like all these like very seemingly obvious things?
Like how come you would like didn't work at Google
like when they were early?
Like it all seemed so obvious to me.
And I was like he was right there
and he had the skills and he could have done it.
But like now being at a similar point,
it's like, oh, you just have no idea at all
what's going to happen and you just like try
to like blindly figure it out.
Yeah.
And it just seems obvious in hindsight, but it really isn't.
No, this is the most like in terms of my entire career
or 15 years, whatever it's been.
Like this is the most uncertain I've been about
what my job will look like in five years.
Like what all of this looks like.
Yeah, it's just so fast.
I think that's the thing is like,
you can look at OpenAI's roadmap
and like yeah, they're shipping impressive stuff
and doing it quickly.
Just looking around on Twitter just like every day,
there's some new like media thing that somebody put out
that's like totally transforming video editing
or totally transforming audio editing.
It's just like completely changing industries.
And it feels like it happens every single week.
There's these major products coming out.
I look polished and like, they're all because these AI models
have gotten so advanced.
So you do wonder like, what is the curve like
with these models?
Do they continue to progress?
What is AGI?
Does it matter if humans just keep getting dumber?
Like I don't know, it's the target moving.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's all very interesting.
It's hard not to be excited about it,
but at the same time, I understand when people are anxious,
like I understand those feelings.
And I do think it's interesting with the macro stuff,
like just the economy kind of slowing down at this time.
It was like lots of tech layoffs.
Will they ever return to that peak?
I don't know, I'm a pessimist.
As nice as it was to know that, okay, worse case,
there's always some like overpaid job at Google or whatever
that I can like go get.
That was nice knowing that that existed.
I think that's effectively gone now.
I don't think that is gonna come back.
But more broadly, if I really think about what I believe in,
I don't actually believe that should have existed.
Like I am much more into there being
a million 20 person companies than like way less of those
and just a few massive ones.
Like I think we both like have been trying that for a while.
So this could be the thing that helps that happen.
And that makes, that kind of gives more people
alternative work in the way that I think both of us
have had the fortune to work in.
And it just is way better and way more fun.
So I think after the chaos and people,
there are people that can like, you know,
figure out opportunities and build stuff.
I think they will build like very solid
10 to 20 person companies that do very well.
So I'm just hoping that just makes it all
way more possible for them.
- Yeah, that's probably the thing I feel most certain about
is that small teams will build better products
because of all this like it would just be more common
to see the really powerhouse small teams,
which is exciting because I do love that environment.
- Yeah. - This is good.
I always love talking about this stuff.
I'm not an AI bro or whatever they're called.
But this is very exciting.
- Is that a thing AI bro?
I feel like, I don't know.
I think a lot of the people that were in the web three
kind of shifted over to AI all of a sudden.
- And I was telling you this like that literally happened
in a physically happened in Miami.
There was a bunch of people that physically left
that came here for the NFT hype that are now an SF
for the AI hype and just like, man,
what's it like to live life like that?
- Yeah, what do you think about like open AI as,
I don't know, our warlords in five years?
Like are they just gonna be the major, major tech company?
'Cause you could kind of imagine,
you could plot that out and imagine
that they're just gonna be this powerhouse.
- Yeah, we'll see what happens.
I think if you play back some of the stuff
in previous eras, it was kind of news to people
that a company like Google could start out so small
and end up being as big as they are.
And we had a bunch of examples of those
like Google, Facebook, et cetera.
So now we know very quickly
that if something starts to get traction,
like, oh, they have a shot at being a unicorn.
I just feel that just wasn't as well understood before.
- Yeah.
- Because that's more understood now,
the competition they're gonna face is really intense.
I still think like they're very good
and like the team behind it is very good
and they have a head start, of course.
We'll see what ends up happening
if they are able to, like I said,
the business models around this stuff have not been invented.
It's a very expensive business to run at least today.
They get rather their next model is rumored to be trained
on like a $225 million like computing thing.
So if GPT five costs that much,
that's like insanely capital intensive.
- Yeah.
- And if it turns out like there isn't a great business model
around this stuff, you know that that's like the part
that needs to be figured out.
I think right now people are willing,
I'm willing to pay like crazy amounts of money
'cause this is super useful for me,
but you have to figure out how to make it
effectively free and derive the money from somewhere else
that always falls back into advertising.
But with something like this,
advertising so clearly dilutes the value in a lot of ways.
- Oh, wow, yeah.
- 'Cause the whole pitch is like insane accuracy
that you don't get.
So it's like, what is the business model?
And we'll see like it might, yeah, we have no idea.
I'm okay with them growing and being successful.
I know there's general anti-corporate sentiment,
which I get, but you know, they're gonna create,
they probably are, how much value do you think
they've already created?
Like they've probably saved billions in dollars already.
Just in like equals times,
they probably will end up saving trillions and trillions
of dollars if they capture one or two percent of it.
That's fine by me.
So yeah, I don't know.
We'll see.
- One of my favorite things on this podcast X
is when we've basically landed the plane
and then I ask you a question like that
and just like totally spark things back up.
It's just probably like a terrible thing to do
as a potter gasher.
I love doing that.
- I mean, let's just double the length of our pockets.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Let's go to one hour.
- It's weird how many times we hit like right on 24 minutes.
Not like 24 zero, but like they round up to 24 minutes.
Every single episode, this one's gonna be a little longer,
but like that happens a lot.
It's interesting to me.
We're just getting so efficient.
We're just like little AI monkeys or something.
Okay, we should probably get off here.
This has been fun decks.
- Okay. - So it again.
- Yeah.
- See ya.
(upbeat music)